Joan Kandel: Christine imperialists coming
Joan Kandel: Yes, sir.
TCL A501DL: Yes, ma'am.
TCL A501DL: Right now, I apologize.
Okay.
Joan Kandel: All right, so, um,
Joan Kandel: So Christina, tell me a little bit about about why you're here.
TCL A501DL: Okay. Um, I
TCL A501DL: For more than half my life. I guess I did drugs. I been clean now going on six years, August 27 will be six years. And I just want to stay
Class.
TCL A501DL: I'm in the same
TCL A501DL: Song. I'm in the same city where I
TCL A501DL: Have a garden. Yes. And so I
TCL A501DL: I mean I ride the bus. I don't have a car. So, needless to say, I see all the old people. You know what I mean. And, and I
TCL A501DL: Have been having cravings. I've been a you know just seeing the same people over and over again and onion on the bus system it's, you know, everybody writes the same buzz, you know, basically, you know,
TCL A501DL: There's one script.
TCL A501DL: Which is central. And everybody catches that buzz. It goes all the way from what we call the war zone. You know, the ghetto.
TCL A501DL: You know, all the way down downtown to all the main where I go for groups, you know, so it's
TCL A501DL: It's getting harder and harder and i don't i don't want to mess up. I've gained so much, you know, my family. Again, my family back, you're not getting everything that that I used to have before. You know, I started using. I don't want to lose all that I don't want to lose six years of sobriety.
TCL A501DL: So,
TCL A501DL: No, you don't.
Joan Kandel: I agree. Yeah. So, so you you used to be on Suboxone right
TCL A501DL: Yes. And honestly, honestly speaking, I have been buying it on the street, just because I know I don't want until I could get it. Okay. Yes. So, yeah, yeah.
TCL A501DL: And it's getting
TCL A501DL: The kids to play it you know me, I just can't buy it like
TCL A501DL: Every day like directing
Joan Kandel: And it's not cheap either
TCL A501DL: No, it's not. It's not.
TCL A501DL: So yeah, how much do you pay for a strip or
No.
TCL A501DL: No, this is good.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, right. Print eight milligrams strip
TCL A501DL: Yeah yeah
Joan Kandel: That's a lot. That's expensive.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, so how how much of that. Are you taking now.
TCL A501DL: To to a day.
Joan Kandel: To day
TCL A501DL: Yes, but I just
Joan Kandel: Said a stable dose for you.
Yes.
TCL A501DL: To where I don't get high. I don't, I don't want to get high up this Boston. I just want to stay stable. I don't want to
TCL A501DL: Share. No, I'm not trying to mine alter knowledge, just I don't. I just want to stay stable. Right. Yeah. Yeah, that's what I was telling my counselors.
TCL A501DL: Monday that, you know, I kind of explained to me what I was doing and and
TCL A501DL: Where I wanted to be in there like well I just shared. That's what you want to do. It's going to be a mind altering drug as well. And I'm like, No, I don't want, I don't want a month that high of a dose to where I'm getting high. I just, I just want to be stable. You know, so
TCL A501DL: This is where I'm at.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, it sounds like your counselor may not
Joan Kandel: Understand Suboxone very well.
Joan Kandel: She doesn't yeah she
Joan Kandel: She sounds like you understand it more than she does.
TCL A501DL: She's not enough so she really does it is that she's booked smart.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, well, even the books tell us that it works and it doesn't make people high, it just stabilizes the brain. So she needs to read different books.
TCL A501DL: And I will tell her that
Joan Kandel: Because it's very science based this treatment is very based in evidence and science and. And so, you know, there shouldn't be a reason for anyone to feel ashamed or stigmatized to be on this medication because it's it's it's a really good good treatment for addiction.
TCL A501DL: Yes, it is, it is in. I actually went around to different clinics within my area because I could tell you, I don't have a vehicle and
TCL A501DL: They want me to be there five o'clock, which the buses here don't run that early on or before five because they only take the first five people, or they have like a two month waiting list.
Joan Kandel: Yeah. Okay. So that's why, that's why you're going for this rather than going to back to a clinic.
TCL A501DL: Yes, yes, yes. So it was really hard because my, my family doesn't live in the same town. Yeah, I mean,
TCL A501DL: Don't like five miles out
Joan Kandel: Where do they live.
TCL A501DL: They live in Berlin.
TCL A501DL: And we're live.
Joan Kandel: I'm in New Mexico to
TCL A501DL: Oh, are you really. Yeah, yeah. Awesome.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, I'm up in Tulsa.
TCL A501DL: Oh, OK. Well, the way up.
TCL A501DL: North like on the other side of room Leo in chat.
TCL A501DL: Yes, and my other Saturday we out the last subdivision in Rio Rancho so it's like really hard for them to come get me at five o'clock or five o'clock in the morning, you
TCL A501DL: Guys.
TCL A501DL: Ready well
Joan Kandel: Yeah, that's, that's a beautiful thing about this program is that you could just be at home like you are
TCL A501DL: Yes, yes.
TCL A501DL: Yeah.
TCL A501DL: Okay.
Joan Kandel: Good. And the last time you were actually in a program and getting your Suboxone from the pharmacy, when was that
TCL A501DL: Oh, like maybe
TCL A501DL: It's been a while. It's been years, actually. It's been years
TCL A501DL: I haven't been on Suboxone this whole time that I've been clean so it's been more than five years.
Joan Kandel: Oh really,
Oh, wow.
TCL A501DL: I
TCL A501DL: Stay because right now. Right now I'm in what they call supportive housing. I don't know if you're familiar with that.
TCL A501DL: But it helps. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Well, I was through supportive housing and the closest thing to where I there was bus routes, because I don't have vehicle was pretty much in the war zone within that within that amount that they gave you know for rent. So it was
TCL A501DL: So they put me in the war zone. And that's not a good thing. Yeah, for me.
Joan Kandel: Know that makes it just so much more challenging.
TCL A501DL: Yes, ma'am. Yes. So, that's why. So you listen central in in, you know, you see everybody on Central, you know,
Joan Kandel: So yeah, you're in it.
Joan Kandel: So,
Joan Kandel: There's a, there's a way to look online.
Joan Kandel: For me to see what prescriptions. People get
Joan Kandel: And I saw that last year from September to
Joan Kandel: November, it looks like you were being prescribed Suboxone
TCL A501DL: Yes, but I was not. I was not able to get there as well. It was way down on the south Valley on Centro de familia.
TCL A501DL: Okay, way up.
TCL A501DL: Wyoming and I 40
TCL A501DL: Yeah, it was. It was hard for me to get there as well. So I pretty much quit.
Joan Kandel: Okay, so, but there was there was a period of a couple of months where you were getting it consistently.
TCL A501DL: Yes. And how did you, how did you do during that time.
TCL A501DL: I was hoping I was up until like I said I wasn't able to get there consistently every week, like the one
Joan Kandel: Yeah, okay.
Joan Kandel: And you'll be able to get to the pharmacy every week.
Joan Kandel: To get your minutes
TCL A501DL: The pharmacy is on Central and some McHale
Joan Kandel: The location.
TCL A501DL: Okay, good. Right.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, it's on my. You don't need a bus ride for that you can just walk
TCL A501DL: Well, no, I will need a bus right but but it's on the it's on the strip now so I don't have to
TCL A501DL: I don't have they
TCL A501DL: Okay, I go to crossroads, which is eight in DNS crossroads for women. I don't know if you're familiar with them.
TCL A501DL: I've been with them for quite a while now and so that it's a straight right all the way through. So if I could get on San Mateo and central and get back on.
Joan Kandel: Sunday, so good.
Joan Kandel: Okay, good. Well, so since our time is running short I want, I have a bunch of questions. I need to ask you. So when did you last take a dose of the Suboxone
Joan Kandel: Yesterday, okay, you didn't have any today.
TCL A501DL: No, I haven't.
Okay.
Joan Kandel: Because you because you ran out or because you just haven't taken it yet.
TCL A501DL: No, because I ran out.
Okay.
TCL A501DL: Yeah.
Joan Kandel: All right. And are you feeling withdrawal symptoms right now.
Joan Kandel: Not yet. Not yet. Okay. Okay, good.
Joan Kandel: So it's lasting you for
Joan Kandel: For a full day
Joan Kandel: Yes. Good.
TCL A501DL: Well, pretty much. By the time the evening comes, I'll be filling
TCL A501DL: Can yeah yes I'll be getting a read back into 10 so
Joan Kandel: Yeah, okay.
Joan Kandel: And do you work.
TCL A501DL: No.
TCL A501DL: No, I'm actually waiting on my SSI, I
Joan Kandel: Kind of froze up there a little bit.
TCL A501DL: I'm sorry about
TCL A501DL: That I didn't
Joan Kandel: Yeah, now I am
TCL A501DL: That
Joan Kandel: Probably wasn't anything you did.
Was a phone call.
Joan Kandel: Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, okay. Yeah, it freezes up if you give another call comes in.
Joan Kandel: But that's not that's not your fault.
TCL A501DL: Okay.
Joan Kandel: Can you tell me about
Joan Kandel: Other medicines that you take
TCL A501DL: Yes, I take a Wellbutrin I take Clonidine, I take Gabba Penton and I take my testing the web, you turn is to help me focus to kind of Dean is because I have social anxiety and the gap opinion is for nerve damage for my elbow. I don't know if you can see
TCL A501DL: I had a bone removed out of my
Joan Kandel: Oh,
Joan Kandel: Wow.
Yeah, again,
TCL A501DL: And it looks pretty intense.
TCL A501DL: It was, I was in the hospital four and a half months learning to use my hands all over again. Yeah. And it was from
Joan Kandel: My goodness, what happened.
Joan Kandel: We had a bad infection.
Yes.
Joan Kandel: Okay.
Joan Kandel: And the medallia. Yeah. Oh.
That's just
Joan Kandel: Okay, I'm sorry about my fault there. Can you say that again. Number two, has been
TCL A501DL: shipped to my my brain down because I've got ADHD. So, my mind is constantly going and I'm also bipolar.
TCL A501DL: So it keeps it shuts my brain down so I can sleep.
Okay.
Joan Kandel: Do you know doses of those medicines.
TCL A501DL: Yes, I can get on for you right now.
TCL A501DL: Okay Gabba Penton is 300 milligrams would tap one capsule three times a day.
TCL A501DL: The quantity is 0.1 milligrams one tablet. Twice. Twice a day for anxiety.
TCL A501DL: Good Bupropion which is the Wellbutrin is 150 milligrams once a day, and the mud cancer pain is 15 milligrams once a day at night.
Joan Kandel: Thank you so much. That's great.
Joan Kandel: So what
Joan Kandel: What medical problems do you have, you mentioned ADHD and bipolar.
TCL A501DL: Steve.
Joan Kandel: NTS day
TCL A501DL: Yes. And I bet social anxiety from doing so many years in prison.
TCL A501DL: Okay.
TCL A501DL: And any other
TCL A501DL: Okay. I also have what's called
TCL A501DL: I can't, I don't know if it's i'm pronouncing it right or not Scala Dharma and it's
Joan Kandel: Valero dharma.
Joan Kandel: Yes. Go arrow dharma. Okay.
TCL A501DL: And so that's what the gap opinion is for as well because my fingertips get really sensitive
TCL A501DL: And okay, yes. So, and the tenant told me that it, get it might have been caused from the drug usage as well because all my baits are pretty much close
Joan Kandel: Yeah, okay.
Joan Kandel: Anything else
Joan Kandel: Any other medical problems. No, no blood
Joan Kandel: High blood pressure or diabetes or anything like that.
TCL A501DL: I'm actually die of borderline diabetic.
TCL A501DL: Okay, yeah, all of my dad's family there 16 of them and they're all day, baby.
Okay.
Joan Kandel: Any other illnesses run in the family.
TCL A501DL: Besides, diabetes, cancer runs in our family. My dad had
TCL A501DL: Cancer behind his left eyeballs. So they removed the I
TCL A501DL: Oh, well, my mother had
TCL A501DL: Colon cancer.
Joan Kandel: Care, which kind of cancer.
Joan Kandel: Colon, okay. And she and she passed from that.
TCL A501DL: No, actually she
TCL A501DL: She was
TCL A501DL: I say she was murdered.
TCL A501DL: She had broke her hip and was in the hospital. They said to turn those genome for therapy and they left in the bathroom for two and a half hours and she tried to get above the toilet daughter wheelchair.
TCL A501DL: She fell broke ribs. What did the ribs punch it in London. She got pneumonia in Japan. So, yeah.
Joan Kandel: So sorry.
Joan Kandel: When did that happen.
TCL A501DL: Um, this was back in
TCL A501DL: 2002
TCL A501DL: My dad one $800,000 settlement for the nursing home in itself and past 10
Years.
Joan Kandel: Or so sorry, my gosh.
Joan Kandel: That was. Okay. And do you have siblings.
Joan Kandel: Brothers, sisters,
TCL A501DL: There's seven of us.
TCL A501DL: One of them has seven yes there's seven of us my oldest sister just pounds from
TCL A501DL: Liver cancer.
TCL A501DL: And no, no. Okay, I'm sorry.
TCL A501DL: Yeah, I guess it was liver cancer and my brother passed from liver cancer as well, but he got that from Agent Orange in Vietnam.
Joan Kandel: I'm going to keep
TCL A501DL: Message. I didn't drink or do drugs so
TCL A501DL: We don't really know how that came about.
Joan Kandel: Okay, okay.
Joan Kandel: And what surgeries. Have you had besides your is that your left elbow.
Joan Kandel: My elbow.
TCL A501DL: Yes, and
TCL A501DL: Just left navigation.
Joan Kandel: While you're breaking up and it's hard for me to hear you.
We repeat them.
TCL A501DL: tubal ligation. That's it.
TCL A501DL: Oh, OK.
Joan Kandel: OK, when was that
TCL A501DL: Oh God, this was
Joan Kandel: In
Joan Kandel: 1989 okay I'm sorry your sound is coming in kind of patchy so I have to ask you to repeat yourself. Sorry about that. And the elbow surgery was when
TCL A501DL: In 2010
Joan Kandel: Okay. And how many times have you been pregnant pristine
Joan Kandel: Five. Five How many kids do you have
Joan Kandel: Five. Oh, okay.
Joan Kandel: All right.
Joan Kandel: And you smoke cigarettes.
Joan Kandel: Yes, how much you smell.
TCL A501DL: Maybe two cigarettes a day.
Joan Kandel: Okay.
Joan Kandel: Do you think about stopping
TCL A501DL: I have. I've actually stopped smoking for, like, about three years in there. Yeah.
TCL A501DL: I just
TCL A501DL: Started smoking again.
Joan Kandel: Oh, that would be really great to stop again.
Joan Kandel: Yes, right, when
TCL A501DL: Especially at my
Joan Kandel: Oh yeah, it's just a nasty, nasty horrible addiction.
TCL A501DL: Yes.
Joan Kandel: And it and it smells bad. And it's yucky and
costs a lot of money.
Joan Kandel: Lots of reasons to stop.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, and you've done it before.
TCL A501DL: Yes, I did.
TCL A501DL: I actually stopped when
TCL A501DL: When I went to prison and
TCL A501DL: A half after I got out.
TCL A501DL: I don't know why. Maybe there was just a lot of things that were going on in my life. Three within the last couple of years that that got really stressful and
TCL A501DL: Then I started smoking and I actually didn't even get high during all this stressful stuff that was going on. I was homeless. I was like, yeah, it was it was it was a lot but
Joan Kandel: And that's a lot.
TCL A501DL: Yeah, I got my section eight
TCL A501DL: Job moving into my new appointment on Monday.
Joan Kandel: Oh my gosh graffiti. Oh.
TCL A501DL: Yes, so
Joan Kandel: That's fantastic.
TCL A501DL: Life is going to stabilize really soon.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, that's great. And this is also part of getting stable. So, you know, maybe you can make a deal with yourself that your new apartment is going to be smoke free
TCL A501DL: Oh yeah, definitely.
TCL A501DL: Okay.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, okay, good.
Joan Kandel: Well, maybe you don't smoke outside either
Joan Kandel: Maybe just don't smoke.
TCL A501DL: I'm making no promises.
Joan Kandel: That's fine, that's fine. I'll leave that to you. I'm not requiring
Joan Kandel: Promises, but just a planting a seed.
Again,
Joan Kandel: All right.
Joan Kandel: Do you can you tell me how tall you are and how much you weigh
TCL A501DL: Yes, I'm five, four, and I weigh 167 pounds.
Joan Kandel: Did you say five foot even 4054 okay
TCL A501DL: Four and away 162 pounds.
Okay.
Joan Kandel: Do you happen to know a recent blood pressure.
TCL A501DL: I don't, I was just released from the hospital about, about a month ago, actually.
TCL A501DL: And it was from. I got set set this on my I was sepsis and I had severe sepsis on my ankle and it was caused from a chemical burn.
TCL A501DL: I twisted my ankle. Two days before Christmas on Christmas Day, of course grandkids and everything. So I put ask for cream on it and I wrapped it and the aspirin cream created
TCL A501DL: A chemical burns from the bottom of my knee all the way to the tips of my toes and my ankle never healed.
TCL A501DL: Gosh. Yeah, but
TCL A501DL: Blood pressure. I don't remember what it was at but
Okay.
Joan Kandel: And
Joan Kandel: And the
Joan Kandel: It's doing better now.
TCL A501DL: Yes, it's doing better. I mean, there's still a couple of stories still open wounds, but don't don't get they're getting better. They were deep
Joan Kandel: They relocate steep trash sounds bad. Yeah.
TCL A501DL: Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Right, okay so well in the interest of
Joan Kandel: Time.
Yes.
Joan Kandel: I'm gonna kind of go through a couple things and
Joan Kandel: Let you know that the the way the program works. They probably already explained this to you.
Joan Kandel: So we do group meetings once a week.
Joan Kandel: And in the meeting. There's a number of patients usually anywhere between five and
Joan Kandel: 10 patients.
Joan Kandel: And and it's always the same time every week. So you'll get to know the other people in the group. It's a real good way of getting support, so that'll be really good.
Joan Kandel: And it's, there's a therapist there and a doctor there.
Joan Kandel: And so the group. I'm wondering if you can do Tuesdays at 430 in the afternoon.
Joan Kandel: Okay, good. So we'll put you in that group I'm, I'm the doctor in the group and Dominique Is the therapist in the group. And it's a very nice group, you'll meet really good people and that'll be every week.
Joan Kandel: And what you'll so that's Tuesdays at 430 what you'll do is every Tuesday, call the virtual clinic, which is the number that you called at four o'clock.
Joan Kandel: Okay, because they'll have some paperwork for you to fill out and they want you to check in early so that you're ready to start the group at 430
TCL A501DL: Okay, so that will be the original number. The 40408 number
Joan Kandel: You've got it. You've got it. That's one to keep in your phone because that's the number to call. If you have any questions. If you need anything, and also every time you have any kind of appointment. That's the number to call and then they'll give you the days number to call for the group.
Joan Kandel: Because that changes all the time.
Joan Kandel: Okay, it won't be this number.
Joan Kandel: That you
TCL A501DL: Okay.
Joan Kandel: Okay, good. And then I'm going to be
Joan Kandel: Putting the prescription in in the computer.
Joan Kandel: After we get off the phone here and I'm going to be prescribing this Suboxone
Joan Kandel: And I'll just keep you at 16 milligrams a day for now and it may, you know, maybe in the future we can kind of taper down on that. If you're feeling stable and people or we can leave it at 16 we probably won't go up from that. It sounds like you don't need to go up from that.
Joan Kandel: That's a good stable dose. Yeah.
So,
Joan Kandel: The other thing I'm going to prescribe for you is, is a naloxone Narc can do you know what that is.
TCL A501DL: I've got like three of them.
Joan Kandel: Oh, you already have three
TCL A501DL: Right now, yes.
TCL A501DL: Okay, giving them.
Joan Kandel: Okay, good.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, we like to have everybody to have it. So I'm going to prescribe that to you if you feel like you have too many of them and don't need it. You can tell that pharmacy to just hold it until you need it. But it'll be at the pharmacy, if you need it.
Joan Kandel: Those are good to carry around with you everywhere, take
Joan Kandel: It on the blast because you never know when you'll see somebody in the war zone use
TCL A501DL: Use
That right
Joan Kandel: Okay, so one thing with the groups is that will need you to have some earphones.
Joan Kandel: Just so that nobody around can can hear just so that it's a confidential space where people can talk and nobody can hear.
Joan Kandel: And the other thing is there's no smoking or of any kind in the group's
Joan Kandel: Just out of respect for everybody.
Joan Kandel: And, and I think that's it for now. We have other things, but we'll talk about them later.
TCL A501DL: Okay. All right.
And you have
TCL A501DL: A blue pick up the prescription
Joan Kandel: So I'll put it in today. So by this afternoon. They should have it ready to
Learn
TCL A501DL: Some great
Joan Kandel: Nice. Good.
Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, you're welcome. And so I will. So I'm going to give you enough to get through to Tuesday, you'll have a dose for Tuesday and then Tuesday afternoon, we'll see each other in the group. And then, and then you'll be able to pick it up for your Wednesday dose.
Joan Kandel: So I'll give you a week at a time. Okay. And the other thing to tell you is that they're going to be
Joan Kandel: Scheduling you for a therapy session a one on one therapy session and that's that's a requirement of the program. So you do the groups, but you also do individual and
Joan Kandel: So that'll be a really important appointment to keep
Joan Kandel: And I don't know when that is but they'll get in touch with you about it.
TCL A501DL: Because I would love
Getting
TCL A501DL: Yes.
TCL A501DL: I need to
Joan Kandel: Perfect. That's what you will do
Joan Kandel: Good, well, that's great. Okay. Christine It's a pleasure to meet you.
TCL A501DL: And I'll see you on Tuesday. Okay. Have a great rest of your day.
Joan Kandel: Thank you. Bye bye.